# VBA-challenge-Re-Submit
# GOAL
# For this assignment we were tasked to write VBA script that loops through stock data for multiple years, creating a summary table that identifies each stocks ticker symbol, yearly change and color the cell green if the # # data is positive and red is negative, calculate the percentage of the change, and the total stock volume for the year.  Once the information is tabulated for each individual stock, the code will identify the stock on the # # sheet with the Greatest % Increase, Greatest % Decrease, and the Greatest Total Volume.  This VBA code will examine multiple years of data producing the desired results on separate sheets it the workbook for years 2018, # # 2019 & 2020.

# THE CODE 
# The code creates the initial variables needed to track the information to produce the desired results.  These variables are initialized and the headers for the Summary and Greatest Tables are created.  The program then # # Identifies the last row in the spreadsheet, and loops through the ticker names identifying when the ticker name changes.  When a ticker name change is located the, the code will store the TickerName, # # # # # # # # # LastDayClosingingPrice, TotalStockVolume, YearlyChange & YearlyChange.  The code will then examine if the information for that ticker exceeds the GreatestPercentIncreaseTotal, GreatestPercentDecreaseTotal, or GreatestTotalVolumeTotal, and if it does it update the variables with the new data.  The code will then place the information for the specific stock ticker in the summery table and then move onto the next stock looking for the next name change.  When the code has examined the entire sheet, it will display the results for the Greatest Table, and will then loop onto the next sheet in the workbook and repeat the process.  In the directions it states that this process can take up to 3-5 minutes to complete.  The processing time for the submitted VBA code is approximately 45 seconds showing the code the be efficiently constructed.

# RESULTS
# Of the 3000 individual stock tickers examined in 2018, 1507 stocks (50.23%) had a negative year while 1493 stocks (49.76%) had a positive year.  The stock with the Greatest % Increase was THB at 141.42%, the stock with the Greatest % Decrease was RKS at -90.02% & the stock with the Greatest Total Volume was QKN at 1,689,539,560,106 shares traded. The results for 2018 appear to be evenly balanced between winners and losers, with only 0.5% separating stocks with positive & negative outcomes.   
# Of the 3000 individual stock tickers examined in 2019, 1574 stocks (52.46%) had a negative year while 1426 stocks (47.53%) had a positive year.  The stock with the Greatest % Increase was RYU at 190.03%, the stock with the Greatest % Decrease was RKS at -91.60% & the stock with the Greatest Total Volume was ZQD at 4,373,008,528,422 shares traded. The results for 2019 appear to be negatively sued as losing stocks beat out winners by 4.9%, potentially outilining a down year for the stock market.      
# Finally, of the 3000 individual stock tickers examined in 2020, 1516 stocks (50.53%) had a negative year while 1484 stocks (49.46%) had a positive year.  The stock with the Greatest % Increase was YDI at 188.76%, the stock with the Greatest % Decrease was VNG at -89.05% & the stock with the Greatest Total Volume was QKN at 3,452,956,568,861shares traded. The results for 2020 again appear to be evenly balanced between winners and losers, with only 0.5% separating stocks with positive & negative outcomes.   
# Files submitted for the Week #2 Challenge include:  Module 2 Challenge Result Screenshots (.docx), ReadMe File, & VBA script code (.vbs, .bas & .txt).  A previous submission of this code resulted in a complier error for the tester, so I have submitted three different coding options in an attempt to avoid the error.   

# Thank you so much for your time and efforts!!
# Michael Leonard
